.TH PROD-READY 1 "2026-06-12" "prod-ready 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
prod-ready \- dynamic production-readiness assessment framework
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prod-ready
[\fI\,GLOBAL OPTIONS\/\fR] \fI\,COMMAND\/\fR [\fI\,ARGS\/\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B prod-ready
is a CLI tool that assesses the production-readiness of applications
using deterministic scoring rubrics. It produces structured gap reports with
severity tiers and actionable remediation guidance.
.PP
This is an assessment tool, not a certification engine. It surfaces gaps and
recommends fixes — the decisions are yours.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show the version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B assess
Run a production-readiness assessment.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-type " " \fITYPE\fR
Application type to assess (e.g. web-api, data-pipeline). Required.
.TP
.BR \-\-path " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to the project root. Default: current directory.
.TP
.BR \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: table, json, or yaml. Default: table.
.TP
.BR \-\-rubric\-version " " \fIVERSION\fR
Rubric version to use. Default: latest.
.TP
.BR \-\-exclude " " \fIID\fR
Check IDs to exclude (repeatable).
.RE
.TP
.B list\-types
List available app types and their rubric versions.
.TP
.B info
Show rubric info for an app type.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-type " " \fITYPE\fR
Application type. Required.
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution.
.TP
.B 1
Error (e.g., unknown app type, invalid path).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I prod\-ready.yaml
Configuration file for project assessment settings.
.TP
.I ~/.prod\-ready/audit/
Directory containing audit logs from previous assessments.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PROD_READY_CONFIG
Path to prod-ready.yaml configuration file.
.TP
.B PROD_READY_OFFLINE
Set to 1 to skip network checks.
.TP
.B PROD_READY_NO_COLOR
Set to 1 to disable ANSI colors.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Assess a web API project:
.RS
.nf
prod-ready assess --type web-api --path /path/to/project
.fi
.RE
.PP
Output as JSON:
.RS
.nf
prod-ready assess --type web-api --path . --format json --output report.json
.fi
.RE
.PP
List available app types:
.RS
.nf
prod-ready list-types
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
.I README.md
Full documentation and quick start guide.
.TP
.I GETTING_STARTED.md
5-minute walkthrough with common workflows.
.TP
.I CONTRIBUTING.md
Guide for contributing new app types and checks.
.TP
.UR https://github.com/johnberey19/prod-ready
Project homepage
.UE
.SH AUTHOR
ZOO <dev@zoo.dev>
.SH LICENSE
MIT License
